The incessant rainfall occurred since last night has caused inundation in different parts of the Kathmandu Valley.
The District Police Premises Kathmandu has said Dhungedhara, Gaurighat, Guheshwori, Kapan, Samakhushi and Anamnagar, among others have been inundated with downpour. Senior Superintendent of Police Dan Bahadur Karki informed, "Heavy rainfall occurred since last night inundated many places in the Kathmandu Valley. Police teams are making people aware to stay safe in the places near the Bagmati and Manohara Rivers with regular patrol and miking."
The inundations have badly affected the public life. Waterlogged roads and schools have caused sheer inconvenience to the people.
Police further said the downpour occurred at Budhanilakantha, Sundarijal and Nagarkot areas flooded the rivers and streams in the Kathmandu Valley.
The Weather Forecasting Division has already issued alert to all people to stay safe in the places near the Bishnumati, Dhobikhola, Bagmati, Manohara Rivers citing that there would be high water level in the rivers till 11:00am.
Police teams have been mobilized in different places for public awareness and safety in the wake of floods and inundation, SSP Karki added.
A breakthrough was achieved in the construction of rescue tunnel of the Nagdhunga-Sisnekhola tunnel today.
A breakthrough of rescue tunnel was witnessed today three years and seven months after the beginning of the construction.
The breakthrough was carried out in the presence of Minister of Physical Infrastructure and Transport, Prakash Jwala, Japanese Ambassador to Nepal, Kikuta Yutaka, as well as officials from the concerned ministries, Department of Roads and Embassy of Japan.
Minister of State for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Nanda Chapai, MPs, Secretary at the Ministry Keshav Kumar Sharma and others witnessed the breakthrough of the tunnel. Although breakthrough of the main tunnel is still awaited, vehicles can now pass towards Kathmandu and Dhading from the tunnel from today, said Consultancy Engineer Ramesh Prasad Koirala. There are seven cross passage in the 2.5 kilometre long and 4.5 metre wide tunnel.
The length of main tunnel of the project is 2,688 metres. A total of 2,186 metres tunnel has been dug till today. The tunnel is installed as a separate parallel tunnel to provide safe evacuation to road users in case of an emergency, which also has the facility of ventilators and jet fans. 'Nagdhunga Tunnel Construction Project' is the first of its kind in Nepal and its objective is to improve the road condition around Nagdhunga pass, thereby contributing to ensuring smooth transportation network and improving commercial activities between Kathmandu and other cities in Nepal.
Likewise, it will also save time and reduce consumption of fuel and reduce air pollution. The construction of the tunnel began in October 2019 and is expected to be completed by April 2024.
The then prime minister KP Sharma Oli had laid the foundation stone for the construction of the tunnel on 23 October 2019.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 8, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
The Nepal Rastra Bank has taken action against three banks - Prime Commercial Bank, Kumari Bank, and Himalayan Bank - for breaching the central bank's policy, guidelines, and regulations in the last fiscal year 2022-23.
Of the three banks, Kumari Bank and Himalayan Bank, which were conducting financial activities against the set rules, have been fined nearly Rs 17 million in total by the central bank.
Kumari Bank has been slapped with a fine of Rs 5.9 million for not maintaining the specified credit-deposit (CD) ratio in mid-January of the last financial year.
Similarly, the central bank has fined Himalayan Bank more than Rs 10.39 million for not maintaining the CD ratio in mid-March.
Furthermore, the central bank has issued a warning to Prime Commercial Bank after it was found to be collecting interest by increasing the premium rate contrary to the provision specified, not maintaining the loan loss provision as per the instructions of the central bank.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 8, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs Narayankaji Shrestha expressed his concern about the incident that occurred recently at Teku in Kathmandu during the sit-in protest of Magar and Tamang communities.
DPM Shrestha vowed to launch a serious investigation into the incident and book the culprits.
Receiving a memo submitted by representatives of the Tamang Ghedung Federal Committee and Magar Association at his office today, DPM Shrestha committed to providing medical treatment to the injured ones in the incident.
A group of people taking the banner of the Committee and Association had staged sit-in protest in front of Police Range at Teku on August 2. They had protested over inaction on the part of the police against advocate Bhagawati Pandey for delivering controversial statements against certain ethnic communities. The Committee and Association had also filed a complaint with the police.
Some protesters were injured when a clash ensued between the police and protesters. Pandey, who was arrested on the same day, was released after a few hours following the order of Kathmandu District Court.
In a memo submitted to DPM Shrestha, the Committee and Association have sought action against advocate Pandey, action against police for torturing arrested protesters, bringing the culprits to justice, and providing medical treatment and compensation to the injured ones.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 8, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
Despite Deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister Narayan Kaji Shrestha's response on the gold smuggling racket, the major opposition party UML obstructed the House again today.
Earlier, the UML had agreed to allow the House to run smoothly on condition that Home Minister Shrestha respond to queries related to the gold smuggling racket. However, the UML blocked the meeting again complaining that DPM Shrestha had avoided the topic.
Lawmakers of the major opposition party shouted slogans in the House against the home minister for failing to heed its demand for formation of a high-level probe committee to investigate the gold smuggling case that happened through Tribhuvan International Airport.
After the UML's protest, Speaker Devraj Ghimire adjourned the meeting until 1:00pm tomorrow. The meeting of the HoR was postponed without discussing the agenda.
According to the House of Representatives Rule 2022 article 248 (3), the house decided to announce the suspension of HoR member Top Bahadur Rayamajhi who is behind bars in the Bhutanese refugee scam.
Similarly, Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary affairs, Dhanraj Gurung was all set to present the Transitional Justice Bill. Minister of Education Science and Technology Ashok Rai was supposed to present the 'Nepal University Bill 2023' produced by the Upper House and to send it for discussion to the related committee. However, no agenda could be discussed as UML lawmakers stood up and obstructed the House.
The UML protested stating that the home minister's response was not satisfactory. As soon as the home minister finished his speech, UML MPs rose from their seats and protested, the speaker gave time to UML Chief Whip Mahesh Bartaula to speak.
Bartaula mentioned that the home minister had accused the opposition party of obstructing Parliament in a crooked way and claimed that the Parliament had been obstructed because of the government.
He said the meeting of the House of Representatives, which was supposed to be held on June 30, was postponed due to the ruling party's stance not because of the opposition.
Earlier, the meeting of the House of Representatives was disrupted by publishing notices three times in a row.
He asked: "What happened to the UML'S demand for a High Level Inquiry Committee? Why was this not addressed? How did this go into limbo?"
"We have doubts about collusion between the home minister and the finance minister. If the CIB, the Department of Revenue Investigation had brought the home minister and the finance minister into the process of investigation, we would not have demanded formation of a high-level probe committee."
He said that the demand for a high-level inquiry committee remains. After the UML's protest and obstruction in the House, Speaker Ghimire ended the proceedings of the Parliament till tomorrow.
UML MP Yogesh Bhattarai, who spoke at the beginning of the House session, said Nepal's international image had been tarnished due to the gold smuggling case. He said, "The UML is still determined to form an impartial commission of inquiry."
He reiterated his demand arguing that if a high-level inquiry committee had not been formed, issues like the Sudan scam and the Lalita Niwas Land grab case would have been put on the back-burner.
"There may be legal hurdles in some of these matters. Bodies like revenue investigation and CIB cannot recommend new legal arrangements," he said, "We have questions for the minister of home affairs, minister of finance and PM Dahal, and for that, a high-level investigation is necessary."
Meanwhile, Nepali Congress MP Bishwa Prakash Sharma, speaking after Bhattarai, questioned the opposition why there was distrust towards the institutions created by the law and the constitution. He said, "We are distrusting ourselves. We have no faith in the institutions we established." He also said that if the commission is to be formed, then the incident of Madan Bhandari's death and Nirmala Panta's rape and murder should also be investigated.
He questioned why the opposition had doubts about the government that opened the file of the fake Bhutanese refugees scam and Lalita Niwas Land Grab scam.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 9, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
Citing data received from Nepal Police, the National Human Rights Commission said there is nexus between foreign employment and migrant smuggling and trafficking.
"Although Nepal Police data do not allow one to examine the purpose of trafficking such as sexual exploitation, labour exploitation, organ trafficking and other,s and it also does not specify the destination / country of trafficking, majority of cross-border trafficking cases can be said to have occurred due to deception of the victims with promise of good employment. Data shows that in the fiscal 2019- 20, a total of 136 trafficking cases were been filed with Nepal Police while this number was only 14 in the fiscal 2020-21," said a report on the Situation of Migrant Workers recently released by the rights body, Given the past trends of the trafficking cases filed with Nepal Police, the number of trafficking cases registered in the fiscal 2020-21 was unusually low and if data are true, one can reasonably attribute the low number of cases to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown in the country.
Overall, there were 478 trafficking victims recorded in fiscal years of 2019-20 and 2020-21. Among the victims, cross-border trafficking victims comprise 46 percent while the 54 percent were internal trafficking victims. Both male and female were victims of trafficking though nearly 96 per cent were females against only 4 per cent males. Similarly, child trafficking is also considerable given the fact that nearly four in 10 trafficking victims recorded with Nepal Police were children under 18 years.
According to the report, Nepal Police data also suggest the emerging nature of trafficking and human smuggling in the context of foreign employment. There have been lot of changes in the mode of trafficking in persons (TIP) and human smuggling. A few years ago, the destination for TIP was mainly to India and it wass mainly for the purpose of 'prostitution', while the nature of TIP has changed nowadays. Now not only women but also men are victims; and they are tafficked not only to India, but also across several countries in the world. It is not only for the purpose of 'prostitution' but also for labour exploitation.
On the basis of the smuggling cases dealt with by Human Trafficking and Investigation Bureau of Nepal Police in the fiscals 2019-20 and 2020-21, human smugglers use different routes to smuggle migrants to various countries. At least 13 countries have been reported as destination countries for smuggling. The dichotomy between so called developed and developing countries or rich or poor countries almost vanishes in the face of migrant smuggling from Nepal.
Migrant smuggling destination countries include not only Europe, North America and Australia, but also the Middle-East, Asia and African countries. Main routes to reach the destination countries are not the direct. Smugglers use different indirect routes. For example, in one case, it was found that at least 12 countries were used by the smuggler to transport a migrant to the US, and 11 countries in the case of transporting to Canada.
It is reported that migrant smuggling is very risky travel as well as costly for migrants. Migrants are made captive on the route, and they are looted by hooligans and they also risk dying while being transported, It is also costly because some of the migrants smuggled to US who were interrogated by Police in Nepal reported that they spent more than Rs 5.5 million to reach the US.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 9, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
Expressing dissatisfaction with the provisions of the proposed School Education Bill, private school organisations have announced protest if the government does not withdraw the bill that is in the process of being tabled in the House of Representative or if some of the provisions in it are not amended.
Three organisations; Private and Boarding School's Organisation Nepal, National Private and Boarding School's Organisation Nepal and Higher Secondary Schools' Association Nepal today issued a jointpress release warning that they would be forced to close all schools if their demands were not met. The Cabinet has already approved the bill, They have demanded that the provisions of the bill that propose turning private schools to be turned into non-profit private or public educational Guthi (trust) within five years be withdrawn. The umbrella organisations of private schools have asked the Cabinet to withdraw the bill or submit it to the Parliament only after amending the provision.
They have threatened that if their demand is not met, they will be forced to close schools across the country. The release signed by PABSON's President DK Dhungana, N-PABSON's President Pandab Hamal and HISSAN's President Ramesh Silwal, has termed the provision to be undemocratic and hindering fundamental rights ensured by constitution.
"There should be commitment from the government to ensure the protection and promotion of private investment by amending the bills that adversely affect the purpose and contribution of private schools," the statement said.
They also objected to the provision of the bill that private school fees and teachers' salaries be set by the local level and have demanded a national standard.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 9, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
More than 250 houses were inundated due to heavy rainfall in Kailari Rural Municipality in Kailali.
The rainwater gushed into houses after continuous rainfalls since last night.
Spokesperson for the rural municipality Dipendra Bam said that human settlements at Bhuiyafata, Rampur, Basanta and Narayan, among other places, were displaced and victims were taking shelter in the nearby school. The rainfall was measured at two millimetres in Dhangadi. The airport received two milimetre rainfall in four hours while Tikapur received 107 millimetres rainfall.
The water level in Karnali River has increased and the flow of the water in auxiliary rivers and Mohana were said to be constant. The Hydrology and Meteorology Department urged the people to take safety measures.
Transportation services have been obstructed after the roads were damaged due to heavy rainfall at Khanidanda and Budhitola along the Bhimdatta Highway of Sudurpaschim.
A passenger, Narendra Bhandari, said transportation service had been obstructed due to landslides in many places along the road section. The transportation service to Dadeldhura, Achham, Doti, Bajura, Bajhang and Darchula of Sudurpaschim were completely obstructed, while vehicles heading towards Kailali, Kanchanpur and Kathmandu were also stranded in the middle of the road following the same. Bhandari said that thousands of passengers were stranded on the road. It would take some time to open the blocked road.
Meanwhile, Armed Police Force, Kanchanpur team has rescued two women after they got stuck in the flood in the Syali River, Kanchanpur. SP Prem Rawal in Jhalari-based APF Number 35 said that the police team rescued Nirmala Bhandari, 40, and Gaumati Saud, 35, of Suklaphanta Municipality. He said that the rescued women were handed over to their relatives the same day.
A version of this article appears in the print on August 9, 2023, of The Himalayan Times.
Ambassador of the European Union Delegation to Nepal, Nona Deprez, paid a farewell call on Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Tuesday.
During the meeting held at the official residence of the Prime Minister at Baluwatar, they discussed the issues of bilateral interest and concern, according to the Prime Minister's Secretariat.
Similarly, discussion was held on issue of relations between Nepal and EU, it is said.
Main opposition party, CPN-UML has again disrupted the House of Representatives (HoR) meeting demanding the formation of a high-level probe committee for the investigation of gold smuggling case.
Expressing discontent over the response of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs Narayan Kaji Shrestha regarding gold smuggling in the parliament, CPN-UML again obstructed the parliament today.
Immediately after the response of the Home Minister, UML whip Mahesh Kumar Bartaula said the parliamentary proceedings could not move ahead until the formation of a high-level probe committee.
After the obstruction by the UML, the HoR meeting has been adjourned till 1.00 pm on August 9.